## intro to neuroimaging: overview of modalities and data processing workflow

Today's tutorial has two parts:
* Part 1: Fill in the (modality) blanks!, where you'll read an abstract with the neuroimaging modality omitted and guess which one belongs in the blank.
* Part 2: Two open-ended discussion questions to explore the advantages and limitations of different modalities. 

### part 1: fill in the (modality) blanks!
  1. Using ___________________, we found an area in the fusiform gyrus in 12 of the 15 subjects tested that was significantly more active when the subjects viewed faces than when they viewed assorted common objects. This face activation was used to define a specific region of interest individually for each subject, within which several new tests of face specificity were run. In each of five subjects tested, the predefined candidate “face area” also responded significantly more strongly to passive viewing of (1) intact than scrambled two-tone faces, (2) full front-view face photos than front-view photos of houses, and (in a different set of five subjects) (3) three-quarter-view face photos (with hair concealed) than photos of human hands; it also responded more strongly during (4) a consecutive matching task performed on three-quarter-view faces versus hands.
  2. Slow waves, the hallmarks of non-rapid eye-movement (NREM) sleep, are thought to reflect maturational changes that occur in the cerebral cortex throughout childhood and adolescence. Recent work in adults has revealed evidence for two distinct synchronization processes involved in the generation of slow waves, which sequentially come into play in the transition to sleep. In order to understand how these two processes are affected by developmental changes, we compared slow waves between children and young adults in the falling asleep period. The sleep onset period (starting 30s before end of alpha activity and ending at the first slow wave sequence) was extracted from 72 sleep onset high-density ________ recordings of 49 healthy subjects (age 8–25). Using an automatic slow wave detection algorithm, the number, amplitude and slope of slow waves were analyzed and compared between children (age 8–11) and young adults (age 20–25).
  3. Over the past years, several studies on Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD) have re-ported Default Mode Network (DMN) deficits. This network is attracting increasing interest in the AD community, as it seems to play an important role in cognitive functioning and in beta amyloid deposition. Attention has been particularly drawn to how different DMN regions are connected using functional or structural connectivity. In this study we evaluated (1) functional connectivity from resting state ______________________ and (2) structural connectivity from __________________ in 26 MCI patients and 31 age-matched controls. Compared to controls, the DMN in the MCI group was functionally disrupted in the alpha band, while no differences were found for delta, theta, beta and gamma frequency bands. In addition, structural disconnection could be assessed through a decreased fractional anisotropy along tracts connecting different DMN regions. This suggests that the DMN functional and anatomical disconnection could represent a core feature of MCI.

### part 2: discussion questions
  1. Which modality/modalities could you use to investigate reaction time and why?
  2. What limits other (i.e., not fMRI) modalities from implicating the same regions during face/place processing?

### more modality matching

  1. Preterm birth causes significant disruption in ongoing brain development, frequently resulting in adverse neuro developmental outcomes. Brain imaging using ____________ may provide valuable insight into micro-structural properties of the developing brain. The aim of this study was to establish whether the recently introduced fixel-based analysis method, with its associated measures of fibre density (FD), fibre bundle cross-section (FC), and fibre density and bundle cross-section (FDC), is suitable for the investigation of the preterm infant brain at term equivalent age. __________________ of 55 preterm-born infants and 20 term-born infants, scanned around term-equivalent age, were included in this study (3 T, 64directions, b = 2000 s/mm2). Postmenstrual age and intracranial volume (FC and FDC only) were identified as confounding variables. Gestational age at birth was correlated with all fixel measures in the splenium of the corpus callosum. Compared to term-born infants, preterm infants showed reduced FD, FC, and FDC in a number of regions, including the corpus callosum, anterior commissure, cortico-spinal tract, optic radiations, and cingulum. Preterm infants with minimal macroscopic brain abnormality showed more extensive reductions than preterm infants without any macroscopic brain abnormality; however, little differences were observed between preterm infants with no and with minimal brain abnormality. FC showed significant reductions in preterm versus term infants outside regions identified with FD and FDC, highlighting the complementary role of these measures. Fixel-based analysis identified both microstructural and macrostructural abnormalities in preterm born infants, providing a more complete picture of early brain development than previous _______________ based approaches.
  2. Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder occurring in 5–6% of school-aged children. Converging evidence suggests that dysfunction within cortico-striatal and cortico-cerebellar networks may contribute to motor deficits in DCD, yet limited research has examined the brain morphology of these regions. Using _____________, the current study investigated cortical and subcortical volumes in 37 children with DCD, aged 8 to 12 years, and 48 controls of a similar age. Regional brain volumes of the thalamus, basal ganglia, cerebellum and primary motor and sensory cortices were extracted using the FreeSurfer recon-all pipeline and compared between groups. Reduced volumes within both the left and right pallidum (Left: F = 4.43, p = 0.039; Right: F = 5.24, p = 0.025) were observed in children with DCD; however, these results did not withstand correction for multiple comparisons. These findings provide preliminary evidence of altered subcortical brain structure in DCD. Future studies that examine the morphology of these subcortical regions are highly encouraged in order replicate these findings.
  3. ____ Lesion Volume has been an important biomarker for multiple sclerosis (MS). Current methods available to quantify lesions from MR images generally require manual adjustments or multiple images with different contrasts. Further, implementations are often not easily or openly accessible. We created a fully unsupervised, single _____ image quantification package based on the popular open-source imaging toolkit FSL. By scripting various processing tools in FSL, we developed an image processing pipeline that distinguishes normal brain tissue from CSF and lesions. We validated our method by hierarchical multiple regression (HMR) with a preliminary study to see if our measures correlate with clinical disability measures in MS when controlled for other variables.
